In this section I'm discussing about keyboard events.
There are three related questions to this topic.
So let's begin with keyboard events.
There are three main events which are directly related to keyboard and they are key down key press and
key up.
Of course, key press is a kind of event which is not used nowadays.
So you can consider only two main events of keyboard that is key down and key up.
If you are thinking that these are the events you should use with input boxes or input elements, then
the answer is no because there are many ways nowadays users can enter in a textbox or any other input
element.
For example, you right click and paste that is also input.
And there are other touchscreen devices who allow the user to send input.
So for proper input events, we have another section where we are going to discuss on change, on input
like events, but still to know most of the events and behavior, let's just discuss keyboard events
and of course in some cases it is useful as well.
So I have created a piece of code here where there is a division and some formatting is given to the
division.
Also I'm having one each where I am showing no events text by default and I have placed two text boxes
input one which is having two events configured that is on key up.
I'm calling the E handler and I'm passing the string card key up and on key down.
I'm passing a string key down.
Also the other input element has on key press event.
So I also configured that as well.
Very easy to understand.
So not typing the code, rather just explaining it.
So this is the output of the code.
Now the first textbox has two events configured that is on key up and on key down.
Let's say I press all the key.
So you see that the key down is executed.
And if I release the key, the key up is executed.
I pressed the alter key.
Let me press control key now.
So I'll say control and I will release this similarly.
Any key you press, there will be an event executed for both key up and key down.
You also must remember that when you press the key, it is the key down event and it has a property
called repeat.
In fact event dot.
Repeat is a property which is set to true when an event which is getting repeated, for example, when
I press the key down and if I do not release it, then it will repeat to generate the key down event
multiple times, and at the end it is going to generate the key up event like this.
So that is a repeat happening with key down.
This is the other textbox where I have configured the key press event.
So when you press the key, the moment the key is pressed down, this event is fire.
But as I mentioned in the beginning, this event is not used often these days because there are various
ways to deal with this kind of event.
Also, the key press event doesn't give you any key values.
So let me try that.
Let's try another piece of code now where I'm going to remove the key press and we will keep just the
on key down event in this piece of code I've just removed on key up and the second textbox as well.
And also I'm displaying the value of event DART code and event dart key properties.
Now these two properties are filled with some value when a key is released or pressed.
At the moment I'm configured on key down, so when I press the key down, I will get the code of the
key and the key value as well.
Let's try to run this and see what happens.
Here is the output.
Now let's see this.
I hold down the alter key.
What happens?
The code is all to the left and the key value that is event dot key is LTE.
Now let me also press the control key.
So it says that control left is the code and control is the key value.
Now, let me press a normal character.
I press E here with code.
It displays key e remember the key is capital.
So in case if you are checking the value with F condition, make sure that you consider key as a capital
letter.
Let me also try a numeric key.
Now you see it is digit one and here it is one.
So the key will be like this.
And the key code is this way.
Even if I press caps lock, then in both cases the value is same.
Let me try the shift key.
Now you see shift left and shift.
So these are the values you can use to further implement some program.
So when you have to try a combination of keys like under control and you put an end condition here,
you join it and you may try, let's say key, that means control is pressed.
Then you want to execute some piece of code.
You can try like this.
So these are the basic keyboard events.
As I mentioned, these are not the events which you are going to use to deal with input or input elements
like on change, on input and copy and various other events as well, which we will see in the forthcoming
sections.
Now let's discuss a few related questions of this topic.
The first question is how can you check if Control and Z is pressed or not?
So this is how you can check it.
You put any condition, you have the event or control key value.
If that is true and if the event code is key Z, then you write the statements.
The second question is what does event called return?
So it returns key like this.
For example, you press shift.
So it says shift, right?
Was pressed.
If you say A, it returns.
Key was pressed.
If I press number, then it will say digit four was press.
So the key code returns values like this.
And the third question is explain the difference between event DART code and event DART Key.
So we have already seen that God returns value in this way, whereas Key just gives you the actual value.
That is, if you press a the gold will return key, whereas key will return just the value that is a.